Welcome back. You're now going to
see the building blocks
that make up an RNN.
I'll walk you through the
feedforward equations,
and I'll also show you
the cost function,
and then I'll show you
how you can use those
to keep going through
time. So let's dive in.
I will show you how plain
RNNs propagates information
through time within a
sequence of variables,
as well as how they make
sequential predictions.
You'll get familiar with the math
behind basic recurrent units
to prepare you to implement
forward propagation in RNNs.
Take a look at this
plane or a Vanilla RNN.
It has a many-to-many
architecture.
At each time-step,
it takes an input x,
a hidden state h, and
makes a prediction y-hat.
Additionally, it propagates
a new hidden state
to the next time-step.
The hidden state
at every time t is
computed with an
activation function g with
arguments equal to the product
between a parameter matrix w_h,
and the previous hidden state
h superscript t minus 1,
concatenated with
the input variable
x superscript t plus a bias term.
The complete equation
looks like this,
where x superscript t and h_t
minus 1 are multiplied
by different parameters,
and the resulting vectors
are summed up element-wise.
As you see in this equation,
an operation with a
circle around it denotes
that it needs to be
performed element-wise.
After computing the
hidden state at time t,
it's possible to get
the prediction y-hat by
using an activation
function g with
arguments equal to
the product between
the hidden states and some
parameters w plus a bias term.
These two equations together
represents all of the
math behind a simple RNN.
But let's take a detailed look at
the order in which
computations are made.
Let's focus on the first
cell from the RNN.
It takes us inputs
the previous hidden state
and the current variable x,
which might be the first
word in a sentence.
To get the current
hidden state, first,
you have to get the
product of x and h
superscript t_0 with their
respective parameters,
and then sum the
vectors element-wise.
Next, as the resulting
vector through
an activation function
with the resulting value,
you can compute the current
y-hat by multiplying
the hidden current state with
a set of learnable parameters,
w_y times h,
and going through another
activation function.
In the literature,
related to RNNs,
you'll find similar diagrams
to what you see here,
which show the order
of computation and how
information is propagated
with the recurrent unit.
It is important for you to
take away that hidden states or
the variables that allow
RNNs to propagate
information through time,
or in other words, through
different positions
within a sequence.
As you saw, at every time step,
recurrent units have two inputs,
the previous hidden state
and the current features x.
You now know the
feedforward equations
and the cost function for an RNN.
In the next video,
I'll show you how you can
implement these RNNs,
and I'll be talking
about a scan function.
The scan function allows
you to have faster training,
and it also allows
your code to have
access to parallel computing.